# klotski-game-solver

## Heuristic Description
The advanced heuristic function that I proposed is to calculate the distance between the current l state and the goal state, plus any pieces that are on the way between the current state and the goal state. Similar to Manhattan distance heuristic, we also relax the problem such that the pieces can overlap. As we solve the puzzle by moving Cao Cao towards the goal state, we will also keep track of how many other pieces Cao Cao has stepped on. For example, for the most classic initial configuration, Cao Cao would need to step on two horizontal pieces before he could escape. Therefore, the heuristic value is 3 + 2 = 5, which is the sum of Manhattan distance plus the number of pieces that Cao Cao stepped on.

The advanced heuristic function is admissible because it never overestimates the cost of the cheapest path from any state to the goal state. It relaxed the problem such that Cao Cao can step on the pieces that are on the way to the exit, which is an underestimation of the cost of the cheapest path. Moreover, adding the number of pieces that Cao Cao stepped on his way out is reasonable and would not overestimate the cost. This is because in the actual game when there are pieces on the path, it takes at least one step to move one piece aside to clear the path for Cao Cao. Therefore, the sum of the two underestimations will still be an underestimation of the cost of the cheapest path from any state to the goal state.

The advanced heuristic function dominates the Manhattan distance heuristic because for every state, the advanced heuristic value is greater or equal to the Manhattan distance heuristic value; and there is at least one state that the advanced heuristic value is greater than the Manhattan distance heuristic value, which has been described in the example from the first paragraph. It is for sure greater than or equal to the Manhattan distance heuristic value because it is the sum of Manhattan’s value and the number of piece Cao Cao stepped on, which is never going to be negative. Moreover, in the example described in the first paragraph, the advanced heuristic value is 5, which is greater than the Manhattan heuristic value of 3.
